<h1>Publication policies, obligations & warranties</h1>

*Updated: April 8, 2026*

<p id="term-desc">Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms on the <a href="/definitions">Definitions</a> page.</p>

## Background

Dryad is a not-for-profit organization that makes it easy and affordable to curate, preserve, <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publish</span>, and reuse <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Research Data</span>; and to meet your organization’s needs for the public release of data and fulfilling funder mandates. Our vision is that the open availability and routine reuse of all research data enables the acceleration of discovery across domains and the translation of research into benefits for society worldwide. To that end, Dryad:

* enhances research by making data openly available and reusable;
* enables <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> to be widely indexed and discoverable;
* assigns and registers <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Identifiers</span> that point to or give context to <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> on the Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Website</span>;
* tracks the usage of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span>, and promotes data citation and reuse as a metric of scholarly credit;
* makes data both accessible today and preserved for use in the future;
* respects and protects the privacy of its users; and
* generally, meets the needs of its stakeholders for a trustworthy data <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> and <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publication</span> service.

All of the above functions and offerings, including associated systems, hardware, software, and know-how, are referred to in these Terms of Partnership (these "Terms")  as the Dryad "<span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Infrastructure and Services<span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">."


## Publication policies

1. **Content Criteria**. Dryad only <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Accepts</span> <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> that meet the following criteria:
    1. Submitted by an individual who represents and warrants that s/he is the creator and owner of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> or otherwise has sufficient rights to be able to make the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> available under a CC0 instrument. 
    2. <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> must fall within the definition of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Research Data</span> and be in a digital format.
    3. If a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> is associated with a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Scholarly Publication</span>, the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitter</span> represents and warrants that the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> is in compliance with the formatting, licensing, and reporting guidelines of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Scholarly Publication</span>’s publisher.
    4. The primary language of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> must be English. Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> personnel cannot effectively review or curate <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submissions</span> in other languages at this time.
2. **Expressions of Concern, Retraction and Removal of Files**. If there is an associated <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Scholarly Publication</span>, Dryad generally defers authority to the publisher when issues arise regarding validity of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span>. If a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> on the Website is associated with a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Scholarly Publication</span> for which there is an “expression of concern,” “retraction” or similar statement on the part of the publisher, Dryad will continue to make the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> available, but with an appropriate warning and a link to the statement  from the publisher. Data files that are updated as corrections to the original <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Scholarly Publication</span> will be similarly linked to the publisher’s corrigendum where Dryad is made aware of such.

    Dryad follows the recommendations of the [FORCE11 & COPE Research Data Publishing Ethics Working Group](https://zenodo.org/records/5391293) (6 Sep 2021). These include guidelines for contacting third parties, including not only the publishers of an associated <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Scholarly Publication</span>, but also the institution(s) of relevant authors, if required.

    Those who wish to see a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> on the Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Website</span> taken down, either for copyright infringement, because of privacy concerns, or for other legitimate cause, should contact <a class="emailr" href="mailto:dev@null?subject=Takedown request" aria-label="Email Dryad help desk">gro.dayrdatad@pleh</a> providing the following:

    5. A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed;
    6. Identification of the work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at the site;
    7. Identification of material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and the information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material;
    8. Information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact the complaining party, such as an address, telephone number, and, if available, an electronic mail address at which the complaining party may be contacted;
    9. A statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the owner, its agent, or the law;
    10. A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under the penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.

    **Notwithstanding the foregoing, Dryad reserves the right to temporarily or permanently remove any <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> at any time if Dryad determines in its sole discretion that the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> is inappropriate (containing personally identifiable, sensitive, infringing or otherwise illegal material; or Dryad is advised by legal counsel that the inclusion of such <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> presents a potential risk to Dryad); provided, however, Dryad shall not be responsible for screening the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> prior to or after its <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publication</span> for such issues. Dryad agrees to notify the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitter</span> if the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> is rejected or removed and the reasons related to the removal.**


## Dryad obligations, representations and warranties to Partners, <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitters</span> and Users

1. **Curation**. Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> personnel will provide <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitters</span> support and will curate <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> prior to and following Publication, as follows:
    1. Confirm that files can be opened, are not corrupted, and do not contain viruses that can be discovered through commercially reasonable efforts;
    2. Confirm that the Metadata for the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> is technically correct;
    3. Confirm that files are correctly <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Versioned</span> during the review workflow where applicable, and review updated files and <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Metadata</span> <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitted</span> either before or after <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publication</span>;
    4. Confirm that the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submission</span> is covered by a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Waiver</span> or <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Partnership Agreement</span> where applicable;
    5. Register an <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Identifier</span> (DOI) for the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span>;
    6. Resolve issues that come to the attention of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> personnel after <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publication</span> including, but not limited to take-down requests and retraction notices.

    Dryad may, but is under no obligation to:

    <ol>
    <li>Review <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submissions</span> for personally identifiable or otherwise sensitive or inappropriate information;
    <li>Review <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submissions</span> for copyright and license statements that are potentially incompatible with a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">CC0</span> instrument;
    <li>Review <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submissions</span> for compliance with file format and minimum reporting guidelines and alert <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitters</span> or <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Partners</span> when non-compliance is discovered.
    </ol>

    Dryad will not:    

    <ol>
    <li>Make decisions regarding what <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> is to be archived by the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Scholarly Publication</span> publisher rather than <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitted</span> to the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Website</span>;
    <li>Check the scientific validity, veracity, accuracy or completeness of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span>;
    <li>Guarantee compliance with content policies or guidelines set by <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Partners</span> in the absence of a separate contract for special <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> services;
    </ol>

2. **Content Distribution**.
    1. *Publication*. Dryad will make <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Accepted</span> <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> available to the public under a <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">CC0</span> instrument and communicate scholarly norms for data reuse to <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitters</span> and <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Users</span> including, but not limited to, guidelines for data citation. However, Dryad shall NOT be responsible for enforcing scholarly norms.
    2. *Persistence and Availability*. Dryad shall make commercially reasonable efforts to maintain the continual availability of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Website</span> (subject to reasonable downtime for maintenance), and provide advance notice, when possible, of any material changes or discontinuities. However, Dryad shall NOT be responsible for the consequences of any downtime, disruptions or discontinuity of the Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Infrastructure and Services</span> that occur outside of Dryad’s control.
    3. *Third-Party Use*. Dryad is NOT responsible for the uses of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Published</span> <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> made by third parties, including those who view and download <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> through Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Infrastructure and Services</span>.
3. **Integrity, Availability and Reusability**. Dryad aims to maintain the integrity, availability and reusability of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> it Publishes over the long term. Note that it remains the responsibility of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitters</span> to provide sufficient Metadata and background information in order to facilitate <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Users</span>' understanding of the data.

    This policy is informed by the [Open Archival Information System (OAIS) reference model (ISO 14721:2012](https://www.iso.org/standard/57284.html), which defines “long term” to be a period of time long enough for there to be concern about the impacts of changing technologies, including support for new media and data formats, and of a changing user community.

4. **Preferred Formats and Support Levels**.
    1. *Preferred Formats*. While Dryad accepts all data types and formats within reason, some formats are preferred. <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> personnel may contact <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitters</span> to request a file in an alternate format, and/or Dryad may save additional <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Versions</span> of files that have been transformed to preferred formats. Non-proprietary, openly documented formats are preferred if the format does not compromise reuse potential. Dryad recognizes that some formats may be preferred for reusability even if not ideal for preservation. Preferred formats are listed on our [Good data practices](/best_practices) page and updated from time to time.
    2. *Full Support*. Dryad will make commercially reasonable efforts to ensure the properties and behaviors into the future of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitted</span> in a preferred format or other common format, as listed on our [Good data practices](/best_practices) page and updated from time to time.
    3. *Limited support*. For uncommon formats for which we are less confident there will be robust conversion tools, Dryad will make some effort to ensure the future readability and functionality of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submission</span>, but there may be some loss. Examples would include PDF files that are not compliant with the requirements of [PDF/A](https://helpx.adobe.com/acrobat/using/pdf-x-pdf-a-pdf.html).
    4. *As-Is Bitstream Access*. For binary files from proprietary instrumentation and software and other exotic formats, Dryad preserves the bitstream as-is and makes no commitment to format transformations or future usability.
5. **Procedures for Preservation**. Dryad aims to preserve originally submitted <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> indefinitely. Steps to ensure long-term availability include:
    1. *Registration*. Every <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> is assigned a persistent <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Identifier</span> (DOI);
    2. *Fixity and authenticity*. All data files are stored along with a SHA-256 checksum of the file content. Regular checks of files against their checksums are made, with a current cycle time of approximately 60 days. Data objects found to be corrupted will be restored from known-good copies as appropriate.
    3. *File preservation*. Data files are replicated, with multiple copies in multiple geographic locations; <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Metadata</span> are backed up on a nightly basis
    4. *Curation*. Manual inspection of files by Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> personnel prior to <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publication</span> for any issues that may affect preservation; Documentation of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Curation</span> personnel activity to ensure more than one team member can perform each critical function related to Curation.
    5. *Succession plans*. In case of closure of the platform, reasonable efforts will be made to integrate all content into suitable alternative institutional and/or subject based repositories.
6. **Security**. Full backup copies of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> hosted on the Website are stored in multiple secure facilities offsite. 
7. **Versioning**. Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> may be <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Versioned</span> in order to correct errors in the archived files or to provide additional data associated with the analysis.
    1. Dryad shall include updated files within the Dryad <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Infrastructure and Services</span> while retaining and allowing access to the original files and all prior <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Published</span> <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Versions</span>.
    2. The Metadata of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> will be updated to include information about the order of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Versions</span>.
    3. The <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Identifier</span> and Dryad search results point to the most recent <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Version</span> of a Dataset, which displays a history that allows <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Users</span> to navigate to earlier Versions.
    4. Prior <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Versions</span> can be accessed via the “Data Files” section of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Dataset</span> landing page and are organized by the date of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publication</span>.
    5. New Versions will be preserved following the preservation procedures set forth in Section 5.
8. **Sustainability**.
    1. *Technical Approach*. Dryad is built with open-source, agile software development methodologies.
    2. *Accessibility & Persistence*. Through assignment and registration of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Identifiers</span>, Dryad is committed to online preservation of the <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Datasets</span> it <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Publishes</span>. Registration allows <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Identifiers</span> to be seamlessly redirected in the event of URL changes. 
    3. *Organizational and Financial Sustainability*. Dryad’s governance and business model are designed to provide for long-term stability and viability, ensuring that revenues from <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Partnership Agreements</span> and <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Data Publishing Charges (DPCs)</span> cover its core operating costs.
9. **Representations and Warranties**. Dryad represents and warrants that it has the authority to enter into <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Partnership</span> fees (in the case of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Partners</span>) and these policies, obligations and warranties (in the case of <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Partners</span>, <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Submitters</span> and <span role="emphasis" aria-describedby="term-desc">Users</span>), and to be bound by them.
