<% @page_title = 'Uploading files' %>
<h1>Uploading files</h1>

Dryad datasets are collections of data files uploaded, described, and published on Dryad. Data files are uploaded on the **Files** screen of the Dryad submission editor. 

Before uploading data files, ensure that they meet our [file requirements](/help/submission_steps/submission#preparing-your-data), can be opened, do not contain sensitive information, and do not have licensing conflicts with [CC0](https://blog.datadryad.org/2023/05/30/good-data-practices-removing-barriers-to-data-reuse-with-cc0-licensing/).

Very large datasets may incur additional [submission costs](/help/requirements/costs). A maximum of 100 files can be uploaded for each publication. Upload packaged/compressed files (.zip, .tar.gz) to retain a directory structure or reduce the size and number of your files.


## URL uploads

For very large files, it is recommended that you use a URL to upload the files from the cloud or a remote server, rather than using direct upload from your local computer.

* Dropbox, OneDrive, and GitHub URLs are all acceptable, as are URLs for institutional or lab servers or AWS file locations, as long as any file URLs are publicly accessible. 
* You must provide a link to each individual file rather than to a directory or to a repository as a whole.
* Google Drive URLs do not work, so please choose an alternative.


## Zenodo uploads

Dryad data is released under a[ CC0 license waiver](https://blog.datadryad.org/2023/05/30/good-data-practices-removing-barriers-to-data-reuse-with-cc0-licensing/). Because non-data files or previously published files are not always compatible with the CC0 waiver required by Dryad, we have partnered with [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/) to host software files and supplemental information for simultaneous publication with datasets. 

If you have files that require alternative licensing options, click *+ Add files for simultaneous publication at Zenodo* on the **Files** screen of the Dryad submission editor. At least one data file must also be uploaded for publication at Dryad. 

You may choose an appropriate software license (i.e., MIT, GNU) for files uploaded for Zenodo publication as "Software". Files uploaded as "Supplemental information" will be licensed on Zenodo under [CC BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).


## Tabular data check

For all data files uploaded to Dryad in CSV, XLS, XLSX, and TSV formats (50MB or less), a report will be automatically generated by our tabular data checker, an integration with the [Frictionless framework](https://frictionlessdata.io/). This integration allows for automated data validation, focusing on the format and structure of tabular data files prior to our curation services. JSON and XML files are also checked for basic file validity.

If any potential inconsistencies are identified, instructions will appear on the **Files** screen, and a link to a detailed report will be provided for each affected file under “Tabular data check”. The report will guide you in locating and evaluating inconsistencies in your tabular data. Any files flagged in the report can be removed, edited, and reuploaded before proceeding with the submission process.

You can choose to proceed to the final page of the submission form without editing any files. During curation, if there are questions about how your data is presented, a curator will contact you with options to improve the organization, readability, and/or reusability of your data.

If you have questions, please see our [guide to the tabular data check alerts](/help/guides/data_check_alerts).